Afterwards, once I've got survey results,
once I've got the interviews or
if I've done one or the other, or
I've done a little bit of both or
just gathered consolidated information.
Basically anything that I've got,
whatever I've got,
I tend to turn into an empathy map.
So an empathy map is a bit like,
very much like a persona,
I call it an empathy map so
that stakeholders don't go.
Well, our marketing department did a
persona recently, we don't need to do that
now and of course their persona
doesn't give me anything I want.
So I just gave it a different name and
suddenly everybody went, all right,
let's do that then, right?
So he's a personian puppetry picture
of them in the middle you put their
made-up name on it, and
then you just kinda list.
What questions and tasks people have,
what pain points they were experiencing,
what their goals were, what kind of
journey they were having overall.
What was influencing them in their
behavior and what feelings they had.
So it's a kind of summary of all those
things we talked about earlier or
just put into a persona.
And I kind of use those for
my reference but also shoved them
into presentations and
I referenced them as much as I can.
I've been into offices before at night and
taken down all the fun photographs
corporate offices have
important people shaking hands.
And big expensive buildings that they
have and I put up personas instead,
which always gets me into trouble.
But it's a way of raising the attention
about user experience and getting people
talking about it, but I get in trouble for
that so properly don't do that.
So oftentimes an empathy map is, I create
a few of them for the different segments.
If I've got more time,
if I'm feeling super ambitious because
I've managed to get a little bit of time,
sometimes I'll do journey mapping, right?
So journey mapping is a bit like
a persona, it kinda shows you
those persona elements over time,
if that makes sense, right?
So this can be really useful for
understanding, how your project fits into
other things or the steps that people
will go through during your your project.
This is a bit more of
a luxury if I'm being honest,
if you already got your foot in the door,
maybe the last project you did personas.
This one next time you might wanna do
journey maps, so what is a journey map?
Well, basically a lot of people misuse and
misunderstand journey maps cuz
really it's only a story, right?
Everybody starts thinking about
journey maps is we're gonna map
the customer journey.
Now you know, because every
customer has a different journey,
everybody is different kind
of doesn't work like that.
But what we can do is we can tell
a story of a hypothetical customer
going through hypothetical
journey using our app, right?
It's not gonna be 100% accurate, but
it will at least give us a sense of how
things are working, so it basically
uses an archetypal user, right?
So in the same way as a persona does,
because every user experience is
obviously unique, but we're mapping
being a typical archetypal user.
And it's typically a very
oversimplified journey cuz people
we're very haphazard in the way we work,
so for example,
let's say typical e-commerce journey,
right?
A kind of a typical e-commerce journey
from a customer journey map will say,
you discover a need and
then you research the options.
And then you shortlist the options and
you buy your option thing and
you get it delivered, right?
In truth, most journeys are much
more complicated than that,
you recognize a need,
you don't do anything about it for
six months because you've
got other things going on.
And then you research some options and
you couldn't find one quickly, so
you kind of give up and forget about it.
Then later on you remember the need again
and then you do some research again and
maybe shortlist and your bookmarket
to come back to it later but
never quite get round to it.
So you're kind of pinging
all over the journey, and
there's no way you could show that
realistically in a journey map.
So instead,
we do this simplified version and
then finally you slot into that
some insights into the user and
the journey that they have and
the steps that they go through.
So you can see each of the steps of
an experience someone has gone through and
the different things they're
experiencing along the way.
And that helps you to understand
where your project fits into it,
what the project has got to deliver, etc.
So let's give you a real example,
you remember earlier on I said,
don't worry I'm not expecting
you to be able to read all this.
Earlier on I said I worked with a mental
health charity that's a suicide hotline,
this is the customer journey
actually produced for that.
So basically, you can see along the top
the various steps in the journey.
So you have a life event something
horrible happens in your life,
maybe you lose a job,
a loved one dies or whatever.
Then you have a realisation you're
not coping in that situation that
you're struggling and
fInding life difficult.
You then seek help,
typically maybe with friends and family or
healthcare professional.
Then the point comes where you make
contact with this charity in this
which was called the Samaritans,
and you then receive help.
And then hopefully after you've
received help from this charity,
you recover and
you have a post-help experience.
So those are the kind of steps in
the journey and then if you go down
vertically, you've got different aspects
that are relevant to that user journey.
So obviously, how people are feeling
is a huge part of it, so
that's where you've got your emojis
with the different emotions around them.
Then you've got the questions that
a user is asking themselves, right?
Or other people, then the actions
that they're taking, now on this
particular journey we decided to add
weaknesses where we felt we the charity.
We're letting the patient or
I can't remember the proper term for
it that's gone out of my head,
the user down, right?
So it's a very useful tool in kind
of understanding the entirety of
the experience.
Now, you might be thinking this
all sounds quite like a luxury and
more than I'll get to do on projects, but
just to help you sell the idea
if you wanna have a go at it.
The reasons that journey mapping is worth
considering is cuz it provides context,
mapping the journey provides you the
context of the project you're working on.
You can see what happens before
the project deliverable and
after the project deliverable.
It's great for identifying failings and
points of friction in a journey to
help you understand where
things have gone wrong.
So it's really worthwhile, so the front
end masters is a great example of this,
you could map from first
discovering about front end masters
all the way through to
being a regular subscriber.
There'll be different friction points
along that journey from signing up and
the sign-up process through to seeing
which courses you've covered before,
those are all potential friction points.
I'm sure they're all perfect and
they don't exist, but
that's the kind of thing that
a journey mapping would uncover.
They're great for planning projects,
so, you can actually look at
a customer journey map and go well,
we're really rubbish at that stage.
We need something to address that
stage of the journey there needs
to be a project created.
So it's a great way of kind of
defining future projects, and
they're really good for
getting everybody aligned and
understanding what the journey is and
what the experience is like.
So they're a really good tool
if you can find time to do them,
in terms of how you do them,
let's talk about the most stripped
down version of it, right?
If you wanna have a go at this but
you don't wanna spend too much time on it,
you can do a workshop, right?
It works so much better if you
can do it in-person workshop,
I recognize that's a bit tricky.
To map a journey, one journey is
gonna take you about three hours, so
it's a half day workshop basically,
if you can manage that then it's great.
Often I kind of position, it as a kind
of alternative to a kick off meeting or
an alternative to a meeting that you're
already gonna have if that makes sense.
So if you're gonna talk about
the scope of the project for example,
then you might be better off mapping the
customer journey than making up a scope,
anyway, how to run that workshop?
First of all you wanna who's in
the room is really worthwhile,
there are some people that are more
valuable to the process than others.
So, I'll show you the thick people
that most want all the way through to
people that are your backups if you
can't get the people you most want,
does that make sense?
So sometimes you'll struggle to get the
ideal people in the room so you can kind
of compromise down, so the best person
to have in the room is end users, right?
It can't do better than that,
it's their journey,
let's get them in the room doing
a customer journey math, but
that can be a bit tricky to
find those people and get them.
So if you can't get them,
get some customer facing staff,
people who do customer support,
that kinda stuff, right?
If you can't get them, then try and
get some people that have got
data on user behavior and
know a little bit about user behavior.
If all else fails, then try and get the
most senior people you can in the room,
right?
And that's because those people although
they probably don't know a lot about
the user,
by getting them thinking about the user.
Even the act of thinking about
the user will improve the quality of
the product [LAUGH] so oftentimes you end
up with a bit of a mix of all of those.
You might be able to get one end user that
you could persuade to come in for it.
And you might get one executive sponsor
and then the rest is people in between,
do what you can something is
better than nothing, right?
You're so
gonna be bored of that by the end of this,
then you've got to decide on the scope,
right?
There are kind of two ways of doing
customer journey mapping, the macro and
the micro.
What it basically comes down to is if
you're gonna visualize the user journey,
I mean, most user journeys consist
of like dozens of steps, right?
And you can't put all of that
in a pretty info graphic, right?
You kinda got a narrow down and
you can't really do a lot more
than kind of five steps, right?
If you start having 10 steps,
it's gonna be a really complicated diagram
that no one's gonna understand and
no one's gonna look at and
it's gonna be valueless, right?
So you gotta kind of go, well,
I can only have five steps, so
what are my choices here?
I can either look very broad high
level at the entire journey or
I can focus in just a part of
the journey that's related to
this particular project,
does that make sense?
So, if you're say for
example doing a landing page, right?
If you do the customer journey mapping for
just the landing page project,
you would look at what happened
before the landing page project.
Couple of steps on the landing page and
then step after,
if that makes sense, right?
Or you could look at
the entire customer buying
journey from end to end,
but at a very high level.
So the very high level stuff works really
well for planning out projects and
finding weaknesses in
the overall experience.
The drilled in level is great for
individual projects,
so just pick your poison basically
depending on the context.
A customer journey map basically
comes down to an Excel spreadsheet,
which is deeply depressing.
But you don't present it like that, but
that's what it is under the hood, right?
So it's a series of steps and then
information you wanna know on each step,
so your stages are the different
parts of the journey, right?
So discovering a need, researching
your options, making a purchase,
getting it delivered post-sales would
be a typical e-commerce one, right?
Your ones will be totally different,
but you pick a series of steps.
So you've got to decide on those,
then what you've got to decide on is what
you wanna know about the user for
each of those steps, right?
So typically you might wanna know things
like what tasks are they trying to
complete?
What questions do they have,
what touch points do they encounter,
how are they feeling?
What's influencing them and
maybe where things are going wrong,
what weaknesses, right?
Just to clarify something cuz it always
causes confusions, touch points refers to
any form of interaction between
the user and the organization.
So at different points in the journey
there'll be different touch points, so
a touch point might be a website,
an app, social, email, in-store, etc.
So some of the touch points will
be offline, some will be online,
some will be within your app that
you're designing, others won't be, etc.
So once you've kind of mapped out the kind
of rough structure of your journey map.
What you wanna know,
what steps to include in it,
then really for
each of the those cells, right?
So like discovery tasks,
you're basically brainstorming
ideas of all the tasks
somebody might wanna complete
when they're in the discovery stage,
right?
Which probably wouldn't be many because
you've only just discovered a need so
you're not doing a huge amount,
yeah, right?
But you might have some initial questions
like, can I make do with what I've already
got, could I get what I've got repaired
rather than buy a new one, right?
So there are potential questions
that someone might have, and
their touch points probably
aren't gonna have any yet
because they haven't actually
interacted with the company yet.
So you get the idea, so you kind of
brainstorm a whole load of things for
each of those steps, yeah,
sorry, someone's got a question.
>> I do.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So if the whole thing here is it's like
a in-person workshop where you're talking
him through the user journey, right?
So how do you pitch people
to show up to this?
>> That's actually that's
a very fair question,
part of the time I piggyback on an
existing meeting, as I was saying earlier.
And I'll say something like, well, instead
of it's just all having a meeting where we
sit around and arguably about this.
I have this exercise called
a customer journey mapping that maybe
we could run through
that together instead and
I talk about the advantages
of customer journey mapping.
So oftentimes I'll piggyback on something
that's existing, if I can't swing that,
then I will invite people and
I will say, I often paint it as.
This meeting will help
define the functions
of the new whatever it is we're building.
And this is your opportunity to express
what you think that functionality should
be cuz that's always a killer,
everybody wants their say.
So that often makes them turn up,
other times you can't
make it happen and
it is possible to do this online.
And I use a slightly different
methodology to do this online,
which I couldn't fit into this workshop
because otherwise it'd go on forever.
But by all means,
drop me an email to Paul@bowagwill.com and
I'll give you a presentation to that or
something.
So you can do it online,
it's a bit laborious and
failing all that,
I give up on the idea, right?
I'm pragmatic I go, okay, so customer
journey mapping is not gonna work,
let's do some empathy maps instead, right?
Or other times I might go well, I really
need a customer journey map which is quite
unusual, they're a bit of a luxury.
And I'll go, all right,
I'll have a crack at it and
I'll send that around to people and
see what reaction I get.
Cuz often people are happy to
criticize but they're not so
easy to get them to turn up to contribute,
right?
So if you send them something, suddenly
everybody becomes opinionated about it.
And I have used that to actually trigger
then having a follow-up meeting because
I've got so much feedback.
I've gone well,
we really need to meeting about this and
that makes the meeting happen [LAUGH] so
it's a bit convoluted.
But that's generally my approach, but
it's not the end of the world
if you can't do it be pragmatic,
something's better than nothing,
all right, cool.
So as you're going through this,
you're gonna generate way more ideas
than you could ever fit on an infographic,
right?
It's not unusual sometimes
to come up with 30,
40 questions just on one
step of the journey, right?
You can't show all of those
on an infographic, right?
So what you then need to do is I just
do dot voting, I don't know whether you
ever come across dot voting, but
basically I say you got three votes.
You can either put all three
votes on one question that you
think is a super important question,
or you can spread them out.
And so everybody votes on which questions
come out the most and then I take
the first half a dozen or however many
I think I can fit on the infographic.
Because those are the top questions
that we wanna focus everybody on anyway,
and I'll come more onto that idea of
top questions and top tasks later.
So yeah, that's what I do with
customer journey mapping,
it can be very useful sometimes,
but it is a little bit of a luxury,
it's a little bit time-consuming and
difficult to set up.
So it's one of the ones that I tend to
drop sooner rather than later if it's not
working out, I'd prefer if I can to
do a little bit of upfront testing